sample on-premise-docker-registry (#456)
SAP-samples/kyma-runtime-extension-samples: on-premise-docker-registry/README.md

In this sample, I am using a simple configuration with nginx as a reverse proxy. You are free to use any other reverse proxy implementation based on your on-premise docker registry behavior and APIs.

- Deploy the nginx as a reverse proxy. Following components will be deployed
  - [ConfigMap](./k8s/configmap.yaml) for nginx configuration
  - [Deployment and Service](./k8s/deployment.yaml)
  - [PeerAuthentication](./k8s/peer-authentication.yaml) set to permissive to allow communication between kubelet and nginx reverse proxy.

```shell
make deploy-nginx-reverse-proxy
```

- Wait for the Nginx reverse proxy to be up and running

```shell
make check-nginx-reverse-proxy
```

- Export the NodePort for Nginx reverse proxy as environment variable

```shell
export NGINX_NODE_PORT=$(kubectl get svc nginx -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[0].nodePort}')
```

## Test workload

Let's deploy a sample workload that will use an image from the on-premise docker registry.

> - Do a docker login to the created on-premise docker registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Log in to the created on-premise docker registry
```

```shell
make docker-login
```

> - Create and store a sample docker image in on-premise docker registry. It uses an image tag based on current time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create and store a sample Docker image in the on-premise Docker registry. It uses an image tag based on the current time.
```

```shell
make create-test-image
```

- Update the [deployment.yaml for test workload](./test-image-deployment/deployment.yaml).

>   - Replace `{nginx-reverse-proxy-node-port}` with NGINX_NODE_PORT value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Replace `{nginx-reverse-proxy-node-port}` with the `NGINX_NODE_PORT` value.
```

>   - Replace `{generate-image-tag}` with the tag of generated image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Replace `{generate-image-tag}` with the tag of the generated image.
```

> - Create Kubernetes secret with credentials to pull the docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create Kubernetes Secret with credentials to pull the Docker image.
```

```shell
make create-secret-to-pull-image
```

> - Deploy the test workload. In the [deployment file](./test-image-deployment/deployment.yaml), you will notice the image is specified as `localhost:30930/....`. This is the localhost wrt to Kubernetes worker node and the port is the NodePort of the nginx reverse proxy service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deploy the test workload. Notice that in the [deployment file](./test-image-deployment/deployment.yaml), the image is specified as `localhost:30930/....`. This is the localhost wrt to the Kubernetes worker node, and the port is the NodePort of the nginx reverse proxy service.
```

```shell
make deploy-test-workload
```

> - You can wait until the pod is up and running. Check the status using the command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wait until the Pod is up and running. Check the status using the following command:
```

```shell
make check-test-workload
```

> - Once pod is up and running, you can access the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once the Pod is up and running, you can access the application
```

```shell
make access-test-workload
```

## Cleanup

> - Remove the test workload, nginx reverse proxy and local docker registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove the test workload, the nginx reverse proxy, and the local Docker registry
```

```shell
make cleanup
```

> - Remove the entry fom the cloud connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove the entry from Cloud Connector.
```

> **NOTE:** In this sample, nginx as a reverse proxy pulls the images from an on-premise Docker registry. The setup relies on the Docker registry API v2 and proves the concept. You can replace it with another reverse proxy or a custom implementation based on API and requirements.

## Prerequisites

- [SAP BTP, Kyma runtime instance](../prerequisites/#kyma)
- [Docker](../prerequisites/#docker)
- [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
- [Kubernetes tooling](../prerequisites/#kubernetes)
- [Cloud Connector on your machine or test system](../prerequisites/#sap-cloud-connector)
- [Connectivity Proxy instance configured in Kyma](https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/configure-sap-btp-connectivity-in-kyma-environment)
- [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/) or another similar tool to generate the certificates
- [htpasswd](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/programs/htpasswd.html) installed

## Setup

The commands have been verified on OSX. However, it should be possible to adapt them for Windows.

### Environment variables

> - Export the following environment variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Export the following environment variables:
```

# Overview

> Many a time, customers would like to innovate by building applications and deploying them on Kyma runtime. Since Kyma is based on Kubernetes, they must package their application binaries as Docker images. These images then need to be stored on a Docker registry server.

Reviewer 3: "Many a time" sounds really strange, maybe Often or Typically

The customers have the option to use a third-party Docker registry hosted on public clouds such as:

> - Google Container Registry

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Google Artifact Registry
```

- Azure Container Registry
- AWS Elastic Container Registry
- and other vendor offerings

> Although this is a reliable option, many a time, customers do not wish to store their artifacts on public clouds. This could be due to various reasons, such as:

Reviewer 3: Again "many a time", never heard that before... I would skip it here fully
```suggestion
Although this is a reliable option, customers do not wish to store their artifacts on public clouds. This could be due to various reasons, such as:
```

- Security and compliance requirements that prohibit storing artifacts on public clouds
- Customers wishing to use the bundled on-premise Docker registry licenses with their source versioning offerings.
- Customers who do not wish to set up contract with public cloud vendor.
- other reasons...

> These customers can consider leveraging the on-premise Docker registry. Docker images are pulled then using connectivity proxy and Cloud Connector.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These customers can consider leveraging a on-premise Docker registry. Docker images are pulled then using connectivity proxy and Cloud Connector.
```
There is not "the" particular one, there a plenty of options

See the following sample flow of how this can be achieved

> ![flow](assets/on-prem-docker-reg.png)

Reviewer 3: There should be no need to store the png as well, you can show the svg directly, can't you?

Author: for icons coming from BTP, svg, does not display correctly.

Here, nginx as a reverse proxy is used to forward the HTTP requests for pulling Docker images from the on-premise Docker registry using connectivity proxy and Cloud Connector.

>**NOTE:** In this sample, nginx as a reverse proxy is used to pull the images from an on-premise Docker registry. The setup relies on the Docker registry API v2 and proves the concept. This can be replaced with another reverse proxy or a custom implementation based on API and requirements.

## Prerequisites

- [SAP BTP, Kyma runtime instance](../prerequisites/#kyma)
- [Docker](../prerequisites/#docker)
- [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
- [Kubernetes tooling](../prerequisites/#kubernetes)
- [Cloud Connector on your machine or test system](../prerequisites/#sap-cloud-connector)
- [Connectivity Proxy instance configured in Kyma](https://help.sap.com/docs/btp/sap-business-technology-platform/configure-sap-btp-connectivity-in-kyma-environment)
- [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/) or another similar tool to generate the certificates
- [htpasswd](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/programs/htpasswd.html) installed

## Setup

> The commands have been verified on OXS. However, it should be possible to adapt them for a windows laptop.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The commands have been verified on OSX. However, it should be possible to adapt them for a windows laptop.
```

### Environment variables

- Export the following environment variables:

```shell
export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-kubeconfig>
export NAMESPACE={kyma-namespace-used-for-this-sample}
export CLUSTER_DOMAIN={kyma-cluster-domain}
export REG_USER_NAME={docker-registry-user}
export REG_USER_PASSWD={docker-registry-password}
export EMAIL={your-email}
```

### On-premise Docker registry

In this sample, we set up a simple Docker registry running on your machine. This can be replaced with a productive alternate deployed in your corporate network. The only requirement is that it should be reachable using Cloud Connector.

- Generate the self-signed certificate for enabling HTTPS for the Docker registry. Be sure to specify the `CN` as `myregistry.kyma`

```shell
make generate-self-signed-cert
```

> - Configure trust for the generated self-signed certificate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Add the newly created certificate to your trust storage
```

```shell
make trust-self-signed-cert
```

> - Generate the `htpasswd`. This is used for authenticating access to the on-premise Docker registry.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Generate the `htpasswd`. This is used for accessing the on-premise Docker registry.
```

```shell
make generate-htpasswd

> ```

Reviewer 2: This looks like I'm suggesting to delete the line, but that's rendered wrongly. I want to add 3 blank spaces at the beginning.

```suggestion
   ```
```

> - Start the Docker registry server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Start the Docker registry server:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ```shell
```

> make start-docker-registry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   make start-docker-registry
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: This looks like I'm suggesting to delete the line, but that's rendered wrongly. I want to add 3 blank spaces at the beginning.

```suggestion
   ```
```

> - Add DNS entry to the `/etc/hosts` file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Add the DNS entry to the `/etc/hosts` file:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ```shell
```

> 127.0.0.1 myregistry.kyma

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   127.0.0.1 myregistry.kyma
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: This looks like I'm suggesting to delete the line, but that's rendered wrongly. I want to add 3 blank spaces at the beginning.

```suggestion
   ```
```

> - Configure Cloud Connector to access the on-premise Docker registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. To access the on-premise Docker registry, configure Cloud Connector:
```

>   ![cc-config](assets/cc-config.png)

Reviewer 2: If we expect that users will want to copy and paste the values, maybe a list in markdown would be better than a screenshot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Back-end type: Non-SAP System
   - Protocol: HTTPS
   - Internal Host: `myregistry.kyma`
   - Internal Port: `25002`
   - Principal Type: None
   - Host In Request Header: Use Internal Host
```
If any of those values are default and don't need to be touched; we could consider removing them from the list (so that only the ones that must be adjusted remain) and adding the statement "Keep the default for all other values."

Author: none are default

## nginx as reverse proxy

> We use nginx as a reverse proxy to forward the HTTP requests for pulling docker images from the on-premise Docker registry using connectivity proxy and Cloud Connector.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We use Nginx as a reverse proxy to forward the HTTP requests for pulling Docker images from the on-premise Docker registry using connectivity proxy and Cloud Connector.
```

connectivity proxy is written lower case but cloud connector not. Aren't that both product names?

> We use Nginx as a reverse proxy to forward the HTTP requests for pulling Docker images from the on-premise Docker registry using Connectivity Proxy and Cloud Connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This sample uses nginx as a reverse proxy to forward the HTTP requests for pulling Docker images from the on-premise Docker registry with Connectivity Proxy and Cloud Connector.
```

This is the 3rd time we reiterate this statement. Is it really required in all places? 

And why is nginx spelled differently here than in lines 25 and 27? [Their docs](https://nginx.org/en/) imply it's spelled in lower case.

> It is exposed as the `NodePort` service. This exposes the Service on the Kubernetes worker node on a port. Kubelet is a component running on each Kubernetes worker node. Among other tasks, it is responsible for pulling the Docker images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
nginx is exposed as the `NodePort` service. This exposes the Service on the Kubernetes worker Node on a port. On each worker Node, [kubelet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/) runs as the component that pulls the Docker images (among other tasks).
```
- Why is "service" once written in lower case and once capitalized? Is this correct?
- Node is capitalized acc to our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/02-style-and-terminology.md#camelcase).
- kubelet is lower case according to their own docs.

> When creating a deployment, we specify the Docker registry as `localhost:{NodePort}`. This is the address of the nginx reverse proxy. The nginx reverse proxy then forwards the call to the on-premise Docker registry using Connectivity Proxy and Cloud Connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When creating a deployment, specify the Docker registry as `localhost:{NodePort}`. This is the address of the nginx reverse proxy. Then, the nginx reverse proxy forwards the call to the on-premise Docker registry with Connectivity Proxy and Cloud Connector.
```
This is the fourth time I see this statement in near-identical phrasing.

> This sample shows a simple configuration with nginx as a reverse proxy. You can use any other reverse proxy implementation based on your on-premise Docker registry behavior and APIs.

Reviewer 2: This seems the second time we mention this fact; before in line 27.
In which place is it more relevant, here or above?

Author: I intentionally kept at both places

> - Create namespace and enable istio sidecar injection if not done earlier.

Reviewer 2: As before, this seem to be subsequent steps, so it should be a numbered list.

```suggestion
1. Create a Namespace and make sure Istio sidecar injection is enabled.
```

What happens if Istio sidecar injection was enabled already and you run the following command? Any adverse effects?

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: add 3 blank spaces at the beginning of each line of the code block for proper indentation below the list item.

kubectl create namespace ${NAMESPACE}
kubectl label namespace ${NAMESPACE} istio-injection=enabled
```

> - Deploy the nginx as a reverse proxy. The following components will be deployed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Deploy nginx as a reverse proxy:
```
The second sentence and the component list are the result of this step, right? Then they should come after the instruction and the command.

>   - [ConfigMap](./k8s/configmap.yaml) for nginx configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>   - [Deployment and Service](./k8s/deployment.yaml)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>   - [PeerAuthentication](./k8s/peer-authentication.yaml) set to `PERMISSIVE` to allow for communication between kubelet and the nginx reverse proxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: add 3 blank spaces at the beginning of each line of the code block for proper indentation below the list item.

make deploy-nginx-reverse-proxy
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The following components are deployed:
   - [ConfigMap](./k8s/configmap.yaml) for nginx configuration
   - [Deployment and Service](./k8s/deployment.yaml)
   - [PeerAuthentication](./k8s/peer-authentication.yaml) set to `PERMISSIVE`, which allows communication between kubelet and the nginx reverse proxy
```

> - Wait for the nginx reverse proxy to be up and running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Wait for the nginx reverse proxy to be up and running. To check the status, run:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: add 3 blank spaces at the beginning of each line of the code block for proper indentation below the list item.

make check-nginx-reverse-proxy
```

> - Export NodePort for the nginx reverse proxy as an environment variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Export NodePort for the nginx reverse proxy as an environment variable:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: add 3 blank spaces at the beginning of each line of the code block for proper indentation below the list item.

export NGINX_NODE_PORT=$(kubectl get svc nginx -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[0].nodePort}')
```

## Test workload

> Let's deploy a sample workload that will use an image from the on-premise Docker registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test the setup, deploy a sample workload that uses an image from the on-premise Docker registry.
```

> - Log in to the created on-premise docker registry

Reviewer 2: Subsequent steps should be a numbered list. 

```suggestion
1. Log in to the created on-premise Docker registry:
```

```shell
make docker-login
```

> - Create and store a sample Docker image in the on-premise Docker registry. It uses an image tag based on the current time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create and store a sample Docker image in the on-premise Docker registry. It uses an image tag based on the current time.
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: add 3 blank spaces at the beginning of each line of the code block for proper indentation below the list item.

make create-test-image
```

> - Update the [deployment.yaml for test workload](./test-image-deployment/deployment.yaml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In the [deployment.yaml for test workload](./test-image-deployment/deployment.yaml), replace the following placeholders:
```

  - Replace `{nginx-reverse-proxy-node-port}` with the `NGINX_NODE_PORT` value.

>   - Replace `{generate-image-tag}` with the tag of the generated image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - For `{generate-image-tag}`, enter the tag of the generated image.
```

> - Create Kubernetes Secret with credentials to pull the Docker image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Create a Kubernetes Secret with credentials to pull the Docker image.
```

```shell
make create-secret-to-pull-image
```

> - Deploy the test workload. Notice that in the [deployment file](./test-image-deployment/deployment.yaml), the image is specified as `localhost:30930/....`. This is the localhost wrt to the Kubernetes worker node, and the port is the NodePort of the nginx reverse proxy service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Deploy the test workload. 
   > **NOTE:** In the [deployment file](./test-image-deployment/deployment.yaml), the image is specified as `localhost:30930/....`. This is the localhost wrt to the Kubernetes worker node, and the port is the NodePort of the nginx reverse proxy service.
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: add 3 blank spaces at the beginning of each line of the code block for proper indentation below the list item.

make deploy-test-workload
```

> - Wait until the Pod is up and running. Check the status using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Wait until the Pod is up and running. Check the status with the following command:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: add 3 blank spaces at the beginning of each line of the code block for proper indentation below the list item.

make check-test-workload
```

> - Once the Pod is up and running, you can access the application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. When the Pod is up and running, access the application:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: add 3 blank spaces at the beginning of each line of the code block for proper indentation below the list item.

make access-test-workload
```

## Cleanup

> - Remove the test workload, the nginx reverse proxy, and the local Docker registry

Reviewer 2: Assuming the order of steps matters here as well, I suggest a numbered list.

```suggestion
1. Remove the test workload, the nginx reverse proxy, and the local Docker registry:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: add 3 blank spaces at the beginning of each line of the code block for proper indentation below the list item.

make cleanup
```

> - Remove the entry from Cloud Connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Remove the entry from Cloud Connector.
```

## Takeaways

> - It is possible to have a setup to pull Docker images from the on-premise Docker registry for applications deployed on SAP BTP, Kyma runtime

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can have a setup to pull Docker images from the on-premise Docker registry for applications deployed on SAP BTP, Kyma runtime.
```

- Docker images are pulled using connectivity proxy and Cloud Connector.

> - A reverse proxy component would need to be installed from the customer side. This will adapt and forward the requests to on-premise docker registry via connectivity proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The reverse proxy component must be installed from the customer side. This will adapt and forward the requests to the on-premise Docker registry using connectivity proxy.
```

> - The reverse proxy can be an off the shelf component such as nginx or a custom implementation depending upon what APIs and behavior is supported by on-premise docker registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The reverse proxy can be an off-the-shelf component such as nginx or a custom implementation depending upon what APIs and behavior are supported by the on-premise Docker registry.
```

```shell
export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-kubeconfig>
export NAMESPACE={kyma-namespace-used-for-this-sample}
export CLUSTER_DOMAIN={kyma-cluster-domain}
export REG_USER_NAME={docker-registry-user}
export REG_USER_PASSWD={docker-registry-password}
export EMAIL={your-email}
```

### On-premise Docker registry

In this sample, you set up a simple Docker registry running on your machine. You can replace it with a productive alternate deployed in your corporate network, as long as it is reachable using Cloud Connector.

1. To enable HTTPS for the Docker registry, generate the self-signed certificate and specify the `CN` as `myregistry.kyma`.

   ```shell
   make generate-self-signed-cert
   ```

2. Add the newly created certificate to your trust storage.

   ```shell
   make trust-self-signed-cert
   ```

3. To access the on-premise Docker registry, generate the `htpasswd`.

   ```shell
   make generate-htpasswd
   ```

4. Start the Docker registry server:

   ```shell
   make start-docker-registry
   ```

5. Add the DNS entry to the `/etc/hosts` file:

   ```shell
   127.0.0.1 myregistry.kyma
   ```

6. To access the on-premise Docker registry, configure Cloud Connector:

>    - Back-end type: Non-SAP System

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Back-end Type: Non-SAP System
```
Typo in my previous suggestion

When creating a deployment, specify the Docker registry as `localhost:{NodePort}`. This is the address of the nginx reverse proxy. Then, the nginx reverse proxy forwards the call to the on-premise Docker registry with Connectivity Proxy and Cloud Connector.

This sample shows a simple configuration with nginx as a reverse proxy. You can use any other reverse proxy implementation based on your on-premise Docker registry behavior and APIs.

1. Create a Namespace and make sure Istio sidecar injection is enabled.

   ```shell
   kubectl create namespace ${NAMESPACE}
   kubectl label namespace ${NAMESPACE} istio-injection=enabled
   ```

2. Deploy nginx as a reverse proxy:

   ```shell
   make deploy-nginx-reverse-proxy
   ```
   The following components are deployed:
   - [ConfigMap](./k8s/configmap.yaml) for nginx configuration
   - [Deployment and Service](./k8s/deployment.yaml)
   - [PeerAuthentication](./k8s/peer-authentication.yaml) set to `PERMISSIVE`, which allows communication between kubelet and the nginx reverse proxy

>    The following components are deployed:

Reviewer 2: duplication, remove lines 119-123
```suggestion
```
